facelift bootstrap/README.md (#9096)
haskell/cabal: bootstrap/README.md

# Bootstrapping cabal-install

This utility is only intended for use in building `cabal-install`

> on a new platform. If you already have a functional (if dated) `cabal-install`,

Reviewer: "If you already have a functional `cabal-install`, however old, then please instead run `cabal install cabal-install`."

> on a new platform. If you already have a functional (if dated) `cabal-install`,
> please, rather run `cabal install cabal-install`.

Author: ```suggestion
on a new platform. If you already have a functional cabal-install, however old, then
please instead run `cabal install cabal-install`.
```

Reviewer: Ah, I'd not been aware of that.

Author: Right. Only they have a little junky UI. For example, you are not supposed to actually merge them -- that's the job of the PR author. You are supposed to create them. In this case, I created them because that seemed most expedite to implement your suggestions. But the author creating suggestions is a very unusual workflow :-)

## Bootstrapping on Linux

The typical use case is porting to a new Linux architecture. In that case,
a `linux-${GHCVER}.json` file is available in the `bootstrap/` folder:

On a Linux system you are bootstrapping, run

    ./bootstrap/bootstrap.py -d ./bootstrap/linux-${GHCVER}.json -w /path/to-ghc

from the top directory of the source checkout.

### Offline build

For offline builds, you can first run

>     ./bootstrap/bootstrap.py -d ./bootstrap/linux-${GHCVER}.json -w /path/to-ghc fetch

Reviewer 2: Is this a real env variable?

Reviewer 2: If not, maybe delete `$` (I am not sure what the proper style is).

Author: It's a question of style and personal preference. I prefer to use env var syntax so that is clear that is not an actual part of the name. Before this PR half of the text was using this style and the other half said just `ghcver`. Again, I think that the former is more clear.

Reviewer: For what it's worth, I have the same habit… but it's a Unix thing.

Reviewer: Ideally it'd be `_ghc-ver_` but I don't think that combination of markup works

Reviewer 2: Clear enough for me!

to fetch tarballs for all the dependencies. These can then be used by a further
bootstrap command by way of the `--bootstrap-sources` argument:

    ./bootstrap/bootstrap.py -w /path/to-ghc --bootstrap-sources bootstrap-sources.tar.gz

> ## Bootstrapping on other (non-Linux) platforms

Reviewer 2: maybe other (non-Linux) unix platforms

Author: Again, a bit judgemental. I don't feel like `unix platforms` mean anything today. So I'd rather avoid this vague term.

You will need to generate a `${PLATFORM}-${GHCVER}.json` file for other platforms and then use it
in the same way as it is shown for Linux above. On a system with functional `cabal-install`, do:

1. Install the same GHC version as you will use to bootstrap on the host system.

2. Build a dependency description file (`$PLATFORM-$GHCVER.json`, e.g. `macosx-8.8.4.json`) by running:

   ```sh
   cabal build --with-compiler=/path/to/ghc --dry-run cabal-install:exe:cabal
   cp dist-newstyle/cache/plan.json bootstrap/$PLATFORM-$GHCVER.plan.json
   cd bootstrap
   cabal run -v0 cabal-bootstrap-gen -- $PLATFORM-$GHCVER.plan.json | tee $PLATFORM-$GHCVER.json
   ```

3. You may need to tweak `bootstrap/$PLATFORM-$GHCVER.json` file manually,

>      for example toggle flags.

Reviewer: "for example, to toggle flags."

>      for example toggle flags.

Author: ```suggestion
     for example, to toggle flags.
```
